TITLE: Buddhist Nun Shares Experiences 
AUTHOR: NAOMI JIANG 
DATE: 2004-11-19
---
At first, Tsunma-la seems to be your average middle-aged woman.  She grew up in Louisiana, attended Wellesley College, majored in marketing, and worked at Fidelity Investments. She never had any real interest in religion.  But this all changed about five years ago when she traveled to Tibet to meditate and learn the Tibetan language. “When I entered the house to see the Tibetan monk, I knew the Tsunma-la, left, stands outside the Sera Monastery in India with her teacher Geshe Tsulga, center, and a visitor. ARTS Under the Bed, Phillips Academy’s improvisation troupe, performed in the spirit of AndoverExeter competition. p.5 questions about Buddhism. Buddhism, she told students, teaches its followers to live a life of service, show kindness to all, and never commit any non-virtuous acts. moment I saw him that my life was going to change.  It was as if I got a calling that I was going to be a nun,” said Tsunma-la. “It had never occurred to me that my life was going to take a spiritual path…it was the furthest thing from my mind.” Now, Tsunma-la lives the life of a nun at the Kurukulla Center for Tibetan Buddhist Studies which is located in Medford, Massachusetts. She visited the Phillips Academy campus this past Monday to share her life story and answer Courtesy of Tsunma-la “We believe that each one of us can become Buddha.  To achieve that goal, we must be kind to all other people, because that brings happiness...We must never be angry and never gossip.  Instead, we must be helpful and develop a kind mind,” said Tsunma-la. Tsunma-la's teacher, Geshe Tsulga, was one of the last lamas trained in Tibet. Although many Western Buddhist nuns leave their hair long, Tsunma-la had her hair shaved when she was fully ordained as a nun about two years ago. “For me, there are two reasons that my hair was shaven. One, it reminds me of my vows and that I'm a changed person.  It also helps me realize that it's not about how I look on the outside, but more about how I am on the inside.  It's just another visual cue to show that I'm now different,” said Tsunma-la. During her visit, she wore a traditional maroon colored robe with a gold belt. According to Tsumna-la, “the design [on her robe] has symbols representing the teachings of Buddha, including the Four Noble Truths and happiness.  Each slit on the robe [represents] each vow that you take. If you are a fully ordained nun, then you have 353 vows and many panels.  The more vows you have the more pure you are.” 