TITLE: Eco Action Forum Sponsored by Philomathean Society Discusses Social Ramifications of Alternative Energy Sources
AUTHOR: ANDREW CLAY
DATE: 2005-11-28
---
Over the past couple of years gas prices have increased immensely. International politics simmers with debates over global warming. Rosie Dupont ’06 said, “The world’s oil supply is going to peak somewhere between 2010 and 2030…. If China lived like the US does and consumed the same amount of oil, it would completely deplete the world’s oil supply by 2010, so for that reason we do need to investigate renewable resources.” This past Wednesday Phillips Academy held a forum on the topic of oil and energy sources.  The forum was led by a panel of Charlie Frentz ’06, Conor Sutherland ’06, and Instructor in History and Social Sciences Carroll Perry representing the economic concerns of the issue and Dupont, Nicholas Cohn ’06, and Instructor in Physics and Chemistry John Rogers representing the environmentalist side. The forum opened with a brief introduction by Mr. Perry and Mr. Rogers about global warming, sources of energy, and the present oil scarcity.  Mr. Perry said of the economistenvironmentalist divide over energy issues, “Fifty years ago...it was a very, very clear distinction and I think it was so clear because the [gas] prices were so low that economists in effect ignored it.  Now with seventy dollars a barrel nobody’s ignoring nothing.”  Mr. Perry went on to examine the different sources of oil used in different countries.  He said, “Not only are the best practices in some countries much better than they are here today, [including in] poor countries, but a lot of this stuff is relatively in reach in terms of trying to get around this oil problem.” “I would argue that the problem is primarily a political one,” said Mr. Rogers of the oil crisis. “Those decisions are going to be continued to be made by people who have very clear vested interests in status quo, that is people who are making an awful lot of money off our current energy system.” After the introduction, the forum opened itself to questions from the audience. One of the issues addressed was whether the benefits of using new energy sources would outweigh the potential social unrest caused by abandoning oil. Sutherland said, “I would question the level of social unrest because those who benefit most from our dependence are the Saudi’s upper class and in the working class I don’t think it would…foster [much] social unrest.”  Sutherland continued, “Oil will run out eventually and I think the key to preventing social unrest is to slowly withdraw from Middle Eastern dependence.”   Frentz said, “What we’re really after here is long-term sustainability for the world.  I think that even to a degree some amount of unemployment and some degree of social unrest is… necessary if we are going to face a really sustainable environment and economy.” Another topic discussed was the viability of environmentally friendly automobiles.  Sutherland said, “I don’t think you are really going to have a large market for hybrid, or ecofriendly,…cars, until you make them more mainstream….The companies that make these ecofriendly cars are really catering towards environmentalist and people who really want to save the environment….Until you make eco-friendly [cars] more marketable towards [a different] sector I don’t really think that you are really going to have a large takeover of eco-friendly cars.”